Q1. What is model training rate? we should choose a high learning rate for getting quick results on training data. Comment on the statement.
Ans: The learning rate is a hyperparameter that controls how much the model’s weights are updated during training after each iteration.

While a high learning rate can make training faster initially, it may cause the model to overshoot the optimal solution, leading to unstable training or divergence. A very high learning rate can also prevent the model from converging to a minimum.
moderate learning rate is preferred to ensure stable and accurate learning.

Q2. Explain one-hot encoding, does the dimensionality of the dataset increase, decrease or mains constant after applying this technique? 
Ans: One-hot encoding is a technique used to convert categorical variables into a numerical format so that machine learning models can process them.
In this method, each category is represented as a binary vector where only one value is 1 and the rest are 0.

Q.3 A financial institution has just hired u to build a system which will decide what car insurance package to offer to different clients. The information recorded about the clients are -gender, age group (under 20, 20-35, 35-55 and over 55), credit rating, occupation, number of accidents in the last year, car make, model, year and the city where the person lives.

The financial institution has a database of roughly 20000 current clients. Explain step by step how you would use a logistic regression approach to build the system.

Your answer should contain:

a. Type of problem you are dealing with

b. How would you cater the categorical data e g. occupation, car make, model, city etc using them as features in your logistic regression model

c. Other relevant details
Ans:

Q.4 Write the steps in designing an Unsupervised ML model. How do we change the penalty parameter in case we have a condition of underfiotting using regularization technique?

Q.5 What should be the expected output of the following code snippet?

Import numpy as np

from sklearn.cluster import Kmeans

x= np.array([[1, 2], [1, 4], [1, 0], [10, 2], [10, 4], [10, 0]])

kmeans = KMeans(n_clusters=2)

kmeans.fit(X)